.\" t
.de TQ
.  br
.  ns
.  TP \\$1
..
.TH GAMEARCH "1" "November 2010" "Camoto" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gamecomp \- apply or reverse compression and encryption algorithms used by
games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gamecomp
\fB--type=\fR\fItype\fR [\fB--apply\fR] < \fIinfile\fR > \fIoutfile\fR
.PP
.B gamecomp
\fB--list\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Filter data from standard input and send it to standard output, using the
algorithm given by the \fB--type\fR parameter.  The default is to reverse the
algorithm (which will decompress or decrypt the input data) however the
\fB--apply\fR option will apply the algorithm instead (resulting in the input
data being compressed or encrypted.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR
list all the algorithms on stdout instead
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--type\fR
specify the algorithm to use, from the list shown by \fB--list\fR
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
\fBgamearch bash1.dat -u -x mb1_h1.txt\fR
.TQ
\fBgamecomp -t lzw-bash < mb1_h1.txt > decompressed.txt\fR
extract mb1_h1.txt from the Monster Bash archive file (-x), without
decompressing it (-u).  Then use \fBgamecomp\fR to decompress it
instead, saving the data into decompressed.txt.
.TP
\fBgamecomp -a -t lzw-bash < input.txt > mb1_h1.txt\fR
take the plain text in input.txt, compress it using the Monster Bash
compression algorithm and store the compressed data in mb1_h1.txt.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Exit status is 0 on success, 1 on bad parameters and 2 on an I/O error.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.PP
Not all algorithms support compression.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Adam Nielsen <malvineous@shikadi.net>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <malvineous@shikadi.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2010 Adam Nielsen.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgamearch\fR(1), <http://www.shikadi.net/camoto>
.PP
All the algorithms supported by this utility are fully documented on the
Game Modding Wiki \fB<http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki>\fR.
.PP
This utility is part of the Camoto suite of tools.
